# Changelog

## v1.5.0
- 🧊The custom mesh normals derived from `VertexNormalMap` are no longer applied directly to the tessellation and displacement, but instead masked by the `green` channel of `TessSmoothMap` and `DisplaceMap` to control the influence on each of them.
- 🧊Modify the default values of `TessSmoothMap`, `DisplaceMap` and `DisplaceMiddleLevel`.
- 🧊Fix minor issues with the unpacking and blending of tangent space maps.
- Modify some properties to optimize the rendering of the eyes, making them render perfectly in any lighting situation:
  - Add `StencilComp` and `DepthOffset` to `Az/AdvancedEye`, and remove `StencilRef` and `ZWrite` from `Az/AdvancedEye`.
  - Remove `StencilRef` from `Az/AdvancedEyeW`.

## v1.4.0
- Redesign the alpha dithering:
  - Remove `DitherPattern1`, `DitherPattern2`, `DitherPatternBlend`, `DitherNoiseTex1`, `DitherNoiseTex2`.
  - Add `DitherPattern`, `DitherPatternLevel`, `DitherAnimationType`, `DitherAnimationFPS`, `DitherAnimationParams`, `UseNativeShadowDither`.
  - Add `Alpha` and the alpha dithering to `Az/AdvancedHair` and `Az/Advanced*Cutout` shaders.
- Fix the missing gamma tag for blend base (color) properties in `Az/AdvancedExtraStyle`.
- Optimize the rendering of the `Az/Advanced*AlphaAlt` shaders so that ForwardAdd passes no longer needs to be rendered twice.
- 🧊Move `Alpha` to the Main PBR category.
- 🧊Add the liquid feature to the `Az/AdvancedSubpart` shader.
- Optimize the detail properties:
  - 🧊Rename some detail properties to avoid misleading meanings:
    - `DetailAlbedoMapScale` to `DetailAlbedoBlend`
    - `DetailMetallic` to `DetailMetallicBlend`
    - `DetailGlossiness` to `DetailGlossinessBlend`
  - 🧊Fix the incorrect UV usage for the detail set 2 (was actually using the detail set 1 UV settings).
  - Add `DetailAlphaBlend(2)` and `DetailAlphaBlendType`.
  - Add the third detail set.
  - Add the sampling bias properties for detail set maps: `NormalMapDetailBiases`, `AlbedoMapDetailBiases`, `MetallicGlossMapDetailBiases`, `OcclusionMapDetailBiases`.
- Add the tear and wear features (in the Extra PBR category) to cloth and item shaders.
- Optimize the liquid feature:
  - Rename `LiquidAlphaFactors` to `LiquidAlpha`, `LiquidAlbedoFactors` to `LiquidAlbedo`, `LiquidNormalFactors` to `LiquidNormal`.
  - Remove `LiquidShadowFactors`, and add `LiquidTranslucency`.
  - Rename `LiquidLightingFactors` to `LiquidLighting`.
- Remove the drawn map feature.
- Refactor the core lighting code.
- Add two properties `DirectDiffuseIntensity` and `DirectSpecularIntensity` to the Lighting category.
- Remove `ShadowIntensity`, `ShadowReceiveControl`, `ShadowDarkControl`, `ShadowCookieControl`, and `SpotDefaultCookie` from the Lighting category.
- Add the secondary specular lobe: `GlossinessSec`, `LobeMix`, `DUAL_SPECULAR_LOBE`.
- Add the stocking feature to cloth shaders.
- 🧊Merge the Tessellation and Displacement categories into the Mesh category.
- 🧊Change the behavior of `TessSmoothMap` so that vertices generated by the tessellation no longer rely on the interpolation of the original vertex values, but are applied directly.
- 🧊Add `VertexNormalMap` and `VertexNormalStrength` to the Mesh category.
- 🧊Change most normal map blending methods from Whiteout to RNM.
- 🧊Change the tangent space map unpacking method to be consistent with HDRP.
- Make corresponding modifications to the third detail set and the vertex normal map on `Az/AdvancedExtraStyle`.
- 🧊Remove `Az/AdvancedDebug`, since it has already been separated as `Az/Debug`.

## v1.3.0
- 🧊Remove the intentional ignoring of the offset and tiling for `Texture2` and `Texture3` to fix the issue where certain plugins in Koikatsu attempt to manipulate them but have no effect.
- Fix an issue where UVs were not passed to the depth prepass in `Az/AdvancedClothAlpha`, `Az/AdvancedItemAlpha`, and `Az/AdvancedLiteAlpha`.
- Add the alpha dithering transparency feature to `Az/AdvancedClothCutout`, `Az/AdvancedItemCutout` and `Az/AdvancedLiteCutout`.

## v1.2.1
- 🧊Fix the two matcaps not blending correctly in `Az/AdvancedExtraStyle`.

## v1.2.0
- Add the `Az/AdvancedLiteCutout`, `Az/AdvancedLiteAlpha`, and `Az/AdvancedLiteAlphaAlt` shaders.
- 🧊Fix an issue where the eyes lost the highlight areas (`overtex1` and `overtex2`) when `IgnoreOverTexUV` is 0.
- 🧊Fix `MatcapCancelCameraRolling` not working properly in `Az/AdvancedExtraStyle`.
- 🧊Change the render type and default render queue of `Az/AdvancedExtraStyle`.

## v1.1.0
- 🧊Rename `LiquidBaseColor` to `LiquidColor`.

## v1.0.0
- `Az/AdvancedExtraStyle` enhancement:
  - Remove `MatcapAddOrMultiply`.
  - Add `MatcapBlendSrc`, `MatcapBlendDst`, and `MatcapBlendBase`.
  - Add `RimLightBlendSrc`, `RimLightBlendDst`, and `RimLightBlendBase`.
  - Add `CustomMainLightSpace`.
  - Add the ring feature.
- Optimize the `Az/AdvancedItemAlpha` and `Az/AdvancedClothAlpha` shaders to include a depth prepass for depth pre-writing when `ZWrite` is on.
- Add `Az/AdvancedItemAlphaAlt` and `Az/AdvancedClothAlphaAlt` to support correctly ordered two-sided transparent rendering.
- Enable the specular setup support on cloth and item shaders.
  - Add the `SPECULAR_SETUP` keyword and `SpecColor`, `DetailSpecularBlendType` properties.
  - When switching to the specular setup, the original metallic-related properties are interpreted as their specular counterparts:
    - `MetallicGlossMap` to `SpecGlossMap`
    - `MetallicGlossMapDetail(2)` to `SpecGlossMapDetail(2)`
    - `DetailMetallic` to `DetailSpecular`
- Major optimization of the liquid feature:
  - Layered rendering of the liquid to make it more realistic.
  - Add `LiquidFTopUV`, `LiquidFBotUV`, `LiquidBTopUV`, `LiquidBBotUV`, `LiquidFaceUV`, `LiquidFootUV` to support individual UV offsets, uniform tiling, and rotation for each area.
  - Add `LiquidAlphaFactors`, `LiquidAlbedoFactors`, `LiquidNormalFactors`, `LiquidShadowFactors` and `LiquidLightingFactors` to provide fine control for the corresponding terms.
  - Add `LiquidBlendMultiplier` to control how much the liquid blends into the surface.
- Add `Color4` to the color mask properties.
